DOCSP-30526: network compression (#21)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/connections/network-compression.txt

.. _rust-network-compression:

===================
Network Compression
===================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to configure **network compression** for
your connection to MongoDB by using the {+driver-short+}.

Network compression is a feature that allows you to compress and
decompress messages sent between your application and MongoDB, reducing
the total amount of data passed over the network.

The driver supports the following algorithms:

1. `Snappy <https://google.github.io/snappy/>`__: available in MongoDB 3.4 and later
#. `Zlib <https://zlib.net/>`__: available in MongoDB 3.6 and later
#. `Zstandard <https://github.com/facebook/zstd/>`__: available in MongoDB 4.2 and later

.. note:: Compression Algorithm Selection

   If you specify multiple compression algorithms, the driver selects the
   first one that is supported by the MongoDB instance that the driver is
   connected to.

Add Compression Feature Flags
-----------------------------

> To use a compressor, add the relevant feature flag to your

Author: We can just call them compressors throughout the page. I think that the compressor features employ certain algorithms, but the feature itself can be called a compressor

``mongodb`` dependency's feature list in your project's ``Cargo.toml``
file.

Click on the tabs to see how to add the feature flag for each supported

> compressor to your ``mongodb`` dependency:

Reviewer: After reading the rest of the page - I think it might be good to add some kind of note here stating that you can also add more than one feature flag to the list

Author: moving the note from the end of the page to this section!

         features = ["snappy-compression"]

   .. tab:: Zlib
      :tabid: zlib compressor

      .. code-block:: none
         
         [dependencies.mongodb]
         version = "{+version+}"
         features = ["zlib-compression"]

   .. tab:: Zstandard
      :tabid: zstd compressor

      .. code-block:: none
         
         [dependencies.mongodb]
         version = "{+version+}"
         features = ["zstd-compression"]

Enable Network Compression
--------------------------

You can enable compression on your ``Client`` instance by specifying the
algorithms in the following ways:

- Adding the ``compressors`` parameter to your connection string. To see
  an example that enables compression this way, see the :ref:`Connection
  String <rust-compression-connectionstring-ex>` section.
- Setting the ``compressors`` field of a ``ClientOptions`` instance. You
  can then pass the options to the ``with_options()`` method when
  instantiating a ``Client``. To see an example that enables compression
  this way, see the :ref:`ClientOptions <rust-compression-clientoptions-ex>` section.

.. _rust-compression-connectionstring-ex:

Connection String
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To enable compression on your connection in a connection string, specify

Reviewer: Suggestion: Simplify to avoid the double "connection" so close together

```suggestion
To enable compression using a connection string, specify
```

the ``compressors`` parameter. You can specify one or more of the
following values for the ``compressors`` parameter:

- ``"snappy"`` for Snappy compression
- ``"zlib"`` for Zlib compression
- ``"zstd"`` for Zstandard compression

The following example shows how to specify Snappy, Zlib, and
Zstandard as the compression algorithms for a connection:

.. code-block:: rust
   :emphasize-lines: 1

   let uri = "mongodb+srv://<user>:<password>@<cluster-url>/?compressors=snappy,zlib,zstd";
   let client = Client::with_uri_str(uri).await?;

To learn more about connection strings, see :manual:`Connection String
URI Format </reference/connection-string/>` in the Server manual.

.. TODO link to connection options page

.. _rust-compression-clientoptions-ex:

ClientOptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To enable compression using within your ``ClientOptions`` instance, set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable compression within your ``ClientOptions`` instance, set
```

Author: oops

> the ``compressors`` field and pass the options when creating a client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``compressors`` field, then pass the options when creating a client.
```

The ``compressors`` field takes a value of
type ``Vec<Compressor>``. The ``Compressor`` type has the following
possible values:

- ``Compressor::Snappy``
- ``Compressor::Zstd { level: <integer> }`` *(Requires Rust version 1.54)*
- ``Compressor::Zlib { level: <integer> }``

> For the compressors that have a ``level`` field, set the field to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the compressors that have a ``level`` field, set the value to
```

``None`` to indicate the default level. A higher ``level`` value
results in more compression, which is slower.

The following example shows how to specify Snappy, Zlib, and
Zstandard as the compression algorithms for a connection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/network-compression.rs
   :start-after: begin-clientoptions
   :end-before: end-clientoptions
   :language: rust
   :emphasize-lines: 4-8, 10
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

> .. note::

Reviewer: It might be useful to have this note in the Connection String section as well since some readers may miss it if they don't read this far, but the example there shows using multiple as well.

Author: moved the note up to a more visible location
